Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 26. In this
episode, Scott talks with Damien
Edwards about asp.net V. Next.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes and I've got
my good friend Damien Edwards
on Skype with me. How
are you, sir? I'm very
well. How are you? I'm
lovely. Actually. I'm actually not
lovely. I'm extremely tired. I've
last week or the week
and a half ago now,
tech ed really took a
lot out of me. What
happened that week? Yeah, I
did. I ended up doing
like four talks and I
did talk with Fowler, David,
David, Valerie, to talk with
Scott Hunter and basically have been
sleeping ever since. Pretty, pretty
ridiculous. Yeah. Doing these kinds
of events. It involves a
lot of preparation and a
lot of, you know, getting
things right. We ended up
doing the bill that we
showed. Gosh, that was built
the day before. Yeah, that
sounds right. Do we usually
do that? Like I know
that we do, we get
a beta ready or an
alpha ready and we present
it, but I can't remember
one where the programmer who
works on it gave me
a build like a couple
of hours before the talk.
Yeah. I've seen it happen
more frequently since, since I
joined Microsoft just over four
years ago. But I think
this is probably the biggest
example I've seen of that,
where this wasn't just a
build of some new extension
or some new template or
some new library that you
bring into an existing sort
of thing. This was, here's
a build of the completely
new stack that we're going
to sell to the world
sort of thing. Yeah. Why
do you think it went
down like that? I mean,
is this an example of
we're not organized and we're
not sloppy or we are
sloppy rather? Or is this
more of a, we're doing
everything in the open. So
here's, here's what we're thinking.
It's, it's very much the
latter and opening the doors
much earlier than perhaps we
have done in the past
and not even perhaps than
we have done in the
past. This is about us
being open. And as soon
as we have something that
we think is enough to
construct a message around like
the, that there's sort of
a fine balance, right? Even
an open source About around
how soon do you show
people, your thinking when you
have a large sort of
incumbent user base without freaking
everybody out. And so in
this case, it was while
this was the time we
felt that we had enough
of the new thing to
show people that we could
sell sort of the core
principles, the core things that
we were using to make
decisions on when we build
this new system. And that
just happened to line up
pretty well with when ticket
came on. But, you know,
we were doing things right
up to the last minute
because you know, there's a
lot of people involved and
there's a lot of moving
parts and things break daily
at the moment. We're still
at that phase where things
are breaking pretty regularly, more
than, than working as we
tease out and sort of
try out a lot of
these ideas. Yeah. It's, it's
funny that you phrase it
like that, that you have
to get something ready in
order to kind of like
quote unquote, sell it. Of
course, everything we're doing is
free right now. But the
idea that I actually saw
some complaints on Twitter, like
maybe five or six, you
know, like not, not, not
the PR the predominant response
was very positive, but I
literally saw some responses like
this. Isn't very open sourcing
of you, you know, you're,
you're showing us the stuff
that you've been working on
in secret for months. And
it's like, well, gosh, do
you want to see the
check-in mail that says ignition
initial check-in yeah. Like here's
here's hello world. Is that,
is that the level of
early, like does open source
always require the very, very
first spike to be completely
public? Yeah, I don't know.
I think there's no one
answer to that. Like I
think every that's a personal
choice per project. Some people
like not to show their
ideas and let's talk about
opensource at the personal level
first, and then we can
talk about it as sort
of the corporate level, as
a personal thing. A lot
of people are very open
and happy to put their
work out there. As soon
as it sort of leaves
their hands and goes into
the individual studio, whatever they're
using and resilient enough and
confident enough or whatever the
description might be to say,
Hey, here's what I'm working
on right now. Give me
your worst. You hate it.
Do you think I've done?
You know, I'm stupid. Do
you think I'm doing amazing
things, whereas other people like
to sort of incubate and
think and iterate before they
think this thing is ready
to, to, to, to show
to others. And that, that,
that there's kind of, I
guess, emotionally ready to, to
accept criticism or to accept
feedback. I mean, some ideas
need time within someone's head
to tease apart and to,
to sort of mash again
before they're ready for other
people to come and tell
them it's the worst thing
or that, you know, they
can see the thought that's
gone into it and et
cetera, et cetera. At the
corporate level. I think it's
not one person. There were
a lot of people involved
and it's not just the
people working and committing code.
It's all the other people
that we have to convince
that this is the right
idea. And so if we
just started doing all of
our prototype hacky things in
the open, some of those
things would be fine, things
that are kind of adjunct
to our existing story. There,
there wouldn't be much harm
in doing that. And we've
done that quite a lot.
You know, we've had, we've
had stuff that goes up
on our previous code Plex
site, which was very much
a preview or very much
a prototype. And we, you
know, we sort of communicated
it as that. And then
there are other things which
were really, you know, we're
sitting down and taking a
good, hard look at the
last 15 years of our
story and then trying to
come up with a story
for the next 15 years.
And those things require a
lot more careful consideration by
a lot of people. And
some, I think there needs
to be a period of
sort of introspection and iteration
internally to get enough people
sort of agreeing internally that
this is the right direction
before we then share that
externally. And that's what happened
in this case. And so
how juxtaposing that, you know,
was this something that people
were hacking on for years
or how much time from,
wow, I think we could
do this too. Wow. I
think we should show this
to people We've been kicking
around this idea for over
two years. I probably go
back three years. I can
remember meetings. We had nearly
three years ago where we
were discussing this idea of
a sort of server optimized
profile of.net and then a
new set of asp.net frameworks
that sit on top of
that and what that type
of transition and change would
look like. And, you know,
they were very, very, very
early prototypes around those. None
of those were new. You
would even consider functional. They
were experiments to see what
it would look like to
use a different CLR than
the one that's in windows.
For example, the core CLR,
which we've talked a little
bit about in the past
few weeks, but it wasn't
really until mid last year
that I think a few
people really started to hack
stuff together. In fact, it
was David Falla while we
were still working on the
release of signal, our two
who one night went home
and decided he was going
to try and port MVC
to run on top of
Katana, our Owen based sort
of web framework stuff. Oh.
And being open web interfaces
and.net. So it's not us,
it's a community based interface
that describes how to plug
middleware together, right. And core
system where sorry, MVC has
been based on system where
ever since it came out
system web being, you know
what we ship in the.net
based class library as the
current asp.net sort of development
stack. And he went and
literally went home over a
week and it came in
on the, on the Monday
and said, okay, well, here's
the work I had to
do to get hello world,
working on MVC on top
of Katana. And that was
porting these listing embassy Kobe's
that wasn't writing it from
scratch. It was literally get
a cleanser from Coplex and
then comment out as much
as you can until stuff
works. It was a pretty
typical spike, like, yeah. So,
so let's, let's, let's back
up and think about the
timeline. So you said a
couple of years ago, people
were brainstorming kind of ideas
of the future. And this
is very much, wouldn't it
be crazy if we could
yes. And then you're looking
around and correct me if
I'm wrong, you're looking around
the company and you were
saying, Oh, well, the CLR
team has been doing these
crazy ideas because they always
have a fork or a
spike of different versions of
the CLR where they're brainstorming
things. Absolutely. And we, the
asp.net team who are not
the core CLR team or
are looking at them and
we'll meet with them occasionally
and say, Hey, that's kind
of a cool idea. And
then simultaneously, you've got groups,
other groups doing, you know,
quote, unquote crazy stuff, like
getting known to work in
visual studio. That's another group
that's going off and doing
their thing. And these ideas
are jelling while simultaneously you're
working on the thing that
we ship all the time,
asp.net proper. Then when did
someone decide to go into,
you know, get hub and
start doing, putting these things
together in a more cohesive
way? Yeah. That happened. I
think about November last year.
And I think, I think
the commit timeline show that,
Oh yeah, that's a good
point. You can go, people
can go back and now
that these are public repositories,
see initial check in, I
suppose. Yeah. And I'm sure
that initial checking wasn't empty.
I like, I'm sure there
was some stuff that had
come from someone's laptop or
some internal repository, but pretty
much the timeline that you
can now see publicly on
those repos represents the timeline
of that code base. There
were previous code basis. As
you know, we talked about
that with spikes and prototypes
and thought experiments. And then
a lot of the new
code base is the underpinnings
were very much written from
scratch. Like the, the, the
KLR the K runtime as
it's called, which is the
sort of the piece that
actually boots the CLR, either
the desktop CLR or the
core CLR, that's all new
and, you know, C plus
plus, and a bunch of
crazy code that I will
never dream of understanding. And
then there's the sort of
middleware sort of pipelining stuff,
which was very heavily inspired
by the work we did
in Katana with the IAP
builder and the Owen sort
of dictionary idea of, of
a chain of functions that
get executed, which is what
ultimately becomes your request handler
that work has sort of
floated over from Katana. And
then there are pieces of
functionality from Katana, like the
authentication middleware, the static file
middleware, the welcome page. Those
things were just almost complete
ports. So we move them
over as code basis and
just fix the things that
had to be fixed. Then
there is the frameworks on
top. So, you know, NBC
where that's more of a
component and, and, and we've
rewriting parts of that as
we go with, we, we're
treating this as the opportunity
to try and fix some
of the things that we
didn't particularly like about MVC.
I mean, NBC has been
through five major versions now.
And so we're taking this
opportunity to, and we really
sweat API last year, right?
So we had sort of
another web based framework for
dealing with request response, which
was tuned for a particular
type of scenario, but there
were a lot of similarities.
And we got into the
situation where we had MVC
web, API, and signaler that
had a set of cross
cutting concerns that went cross
cutting. Like they weren't implemented
in a cross cutting way.
They each had their own
idea of dependency resolution. They
each had their own authorization.
They each had their own
logging. And because they were
all developed in isolation essentially
and released at different times,
there wasn't much coherence between
them. And so this was
our opportunity to say, let's
build a new coal, a
new core set of hosting
abstractions and common concerns such
as logging and DEI and
a whole bunch of others
configuration. And then let's port
those libraries and merge them
where appropriate so that they
all sit on top of
these common concerns. So now
in your application, when you
use those three, and this
includes things like entity framework
as well, when you use
these libraries together, they look
like they were designed to
work together because they were
all built at the same
time and they're all sharing
common pieces. Now, a lot
of people might be listening
to this and thinking, well,
isn't that just.net? I mean,
you know, dot net has
always shipped. If we think
about the base class library
is this large set of
frameworks that all share common
components. And to an extent
that's true, the differences that.net
always shipped as a large
set of components. Whereas in
this case, we have taken
the opportunity to make everything
modular. And so we're very
big on this pay as
you go sort of idea
when you're developing your app,
when you're composing your application
and pulling different pieces together
in this world, you really
do start with nothing. And
from there, it's up to
you to compose the things
together that you want for
your application. And thus you'll
only pay for those, but
when you do, they should
all look like, Yeah, yeah,
that's interesting. We should, we
should break it down with
a little historical context. And
I think maybe people I
should, maybe we should, we,
you and I should work
together in a blog post
about this because people 10
years ago would install this
two or 300 Meg runtime
that would put a complete
framework, arguably one of the
most complete base class library
frameworks, you know, short of
Java that said here's default
functionality from system.date, time to
dot threading that you can
start with. So, you know,
hello world didn't involve go
and get a bunch of
libraries, right? You literally had
them all already, but it
required an, you know, 300
Meg install and a reboot.
That's the lowest lowest level.
And what I would teach
this at a, at the
university level, when I was
teaching C-sharp, I would go
into hello world. I do
a console dot Rightline. I
do a four loop and
I'd look at it and
ILD, you know, the
aisle disassembler and I'd say,
look, here's the base that
we built on top of,
you know, that is well
tested, reliable, wonderful. The CLR
is, is kicking butt, but
the desktop CLR requires this
big install. Then move up
a layer. We created system
dot web and people shouldn't
conflate web forms. The, the,
the style of development that
abstracts away the statelessness of
HTTP, the idea of a
button.click existing in the web
world. They shouldn't conflate that
necessarily with system dot web,
right. And underneath that as
HTTP handler and HTP module,
which are kind of what
we thought of as being
atomic, the atoms that we
built our systems on top
of. Right? Yes. And the
interesting thing is that@thetimewhenasp.net system
web was designed really the
only two or three things
that you were building on
top of those were web
forms or web services as
a max. Because if you
remember back to the.net days,
the whole sale of.net was
around heterogeneous, you know, a
connected systems, service oriented type
architecture, and asp.net role was
to build the UI for
that and to host services
for that. And then the
other things were just the,
everything else, handlers to serve
binary data or to serve
files or to allow file
upload. And they were really
the things that you built
and the underpinnings where you
can see in the underpinnings,
the way that the HEB
handler system was built and
the way the configuration system
is built, that that's what
they were built to support.
And so as new models
have evolved on top, or,
you know, in the web
development world, we were still
building on, on top of
these underpinnings. Now you can
do, you can go a
long way. And suddenly we
did, we went a very
long way in adopting some
of these new models, but
ultimately to use your hello
world example, when you did
hello world in asp.net, you
were still pulling in an
awful lot of infrastructure to
serve these other three things
just to do hello world.
Now, hello world obviously is
not a real example, but
the difference in this new
stack over the content is
that when you do hello
world in the new stack,
you don't have to pull
in any subsystem other than
this is how you handle
an HTP request. And when
I say handle, you execute
this delegate, but you execute
it. Do you know that?
That's really interesting because if
you take the concept of
just hello world, and you
say like here's Python, right?
Put hello world, you know,
print, hello world, and then
zero. And look here it
is hello world at the
console level. But I think
windows, people sometimes are used
to things like visual basic
three or visual basic six
from 15, 20 years ago.
And it's like, here's hello
world. And there's this form
and there's a button. And
then they drag, hello world,
a button over and they
go look it's hello world.
And they go, Oh, that's
the base that's hello world.
Right? They forget about the
fact that visual basic sat
on top of when 32,
which sits on top of
painting API, et cetera, et
cetera, et cetera. So a
hello world at an HTTP
handler level versus at a
WCF channel level versus at
a web forums is very
different. And I think it's
funny that we see these,
these benchmarks. There's a tech
empower benchmark that keeps coming
up every once in a
while, and they'll go and
they'll compare like a web
service created in web forms
saying, hello world, a web
service and web API saying,
hello world with the lowest
level handler in a node
app or a Java app.
So it's like, here's a
motorcycle versus a minivan versus
a single wheel with a
jet engine attached to it.
You know what I mean?
But then they don't take
into consideration that like, well,
how am I going to
take the kids to school
and soccer practice on this
wheel attached to a jet
engine In defense of those
benchmarks. We look at those
benchmarks. We think that's actually
a really great community driven
effort. Those benchmarks are just
data. And what you read
into those is actually completely
at the discretion of the
person, looking at the data,
the benchmarks don't claim to
be a measure of one
system's capabilities. Well, they're just
a big spreadsheet. Yeah. And,
and even more to that
point, they actually go out
of their way to do
comparisons such as if I
take a core system like
Java or, you know, frameworks
built on top of the
Java language and the Java
runtime, or perhaps just the
Java runtime. And we do
something at the lowest possible
level. And then I add
a framework that's on top
of that. And I do
effectively the same thing. What
is the Delta? And of
course the, the value you
get out of that you
say, you now have an
understanding of what overhead, what
is the cost in the
framework that you've chosen over
the thing upon which it
is built. And then it
all becomes trade offs, right?
It's not saying that that's
bad. They're saying that yeah.
When you get a minivan,
your getting a whole bunch
of stuff that allows it
to serve its purpose as
a minivan, but that comes
at the cost of if
you're going to do a
drag race, you're going to
be slow. Exactly. So then
fast forwarding to today, we
are, it feels like we're
looking at what's great about
the CLR. What's good about
new things that didn't exist
10 years ago, like new,
get new thinking around how
assembly loaders work, and then
the innovations around the core
CLR, which is a CLR.
You could install side by
side, as well as things
like Rosalyn, all these kind
of new, I feel like
I'm always using the Lego
analogy, but it's like sometimes
I get these, these old
timers on Twitter who like,
you know, when I was
a kid, these are the
Legos we used. And I
don't like these custom parts.
Well, you know, I was
at the Lego museum. I
went to, you know, to
Denmark. I met them and
they said, well, you know,
after the innovation of this
part, and they all have
funny names for the parts,
you know, like once we
had like the, the lantern,
you know, brick, they, they
call them elements. Once we
innovated this element, it was
a lot of controversial. And
I don't want to create
a, a Lego brick with
a, with a, a stud
on the side, but then
it opened up an entire
new world. And then now
for this generation, this has
become a Lego piece that
we can all count on.
And once you can count
on it, it completely opens
your eyes. So for example,
you know, Roslyn changes thinking
completely about, you can do
something and why you should
do something. And someone might
say, well, this is, this
is a weird, new, strange
world that we're opening up.
Are we sure we want
to do that? But once
you accept it, then you
realize like, wow, we can
do stuff we couldn't even
thought of before. It's almost
baffling that anyone in this
industry would feel that way
about innovation. When you consider
that in every other industry,
whether it's mechanics or architecture
and buildings and everything gets
the advantage and the benefit
of, you know, improvements in
design or the adoption of
new techniques and manufacturing or
new materials. The buildings we
build a hundred years ago
were very different than the
buildings we built now. And
that's the same timescale that
that industry works on. Our
timescale is much shorter. And,
you know, we do on
the web where I know
you say quite a lot,
the timescale web years is
kind of crazy, right. You
know, a week is, is
years in the web. And
we've been working on this
asp.net framework now since the
late nineties. And we, when
we made the transition from
ASP classic, as we call
it to waste.net, a lot
of the API APIs that
exist in asp.net. And what
are the behaviors are actually
there, because as part of
that transition, we opted to
tick the compatibility box. We
said, Hey, we're going to
make it so that you
can drop an ASP page
or just change the extension
to dot ASP X. And
it will run in asp.net.
And so a lot of
the API is, and a
lot of the programming paradigms
exist in asp.net because they
actually came over from ASP.
And so if you add
that timeline on, we're dealing
with a web framework and
ideas that have been around
for quite some time, and
this, I think this is
really interesting to me cause
I've been here listening to
your talks with Douglas Crockford
and he was interviewed on
another podcast recently. And your
latest Hansel minutes listened to
this morning about computer science
stories with, I can't remember
the gentleman's name, but I
know he works in Australia.
Yeah. And it's just how
much we take for granted
about what we use in
technology today is the way
it is because of decisions
that were made decades ago,
many decades ago, and every
now and then someone sits
up and says, you know
what a lot's happened in
the last 20 years, perhaps
this is a good opportunity
for us to break the
mold and, you know, keep
what we think is really
good about what we do
now, but look at better
incorporating the things that have
happened in that, you know,
that last period of time.
So looking at that idea
of, of, of breaking the
mold, like we've got wind
forms, which I still write
stuff for. We've got WPF
and they are different and
parallel. And I see people
doing stuff in both like
Tellerik has a bunch of
great new WinForms controls that
are new, innovative, and being
added on top of, even
though wind forms is arguably
done. And people are always
like, Oh, is it dead?
Well, it's like, well, it
gets bug fixes and it's
finished, but people are building
on top of it with
some amazing stuff. So if
we look at this with
web forms versus what's going
forward with MVC and web
API being kind of converged
appears to be this kind
of web forms framework, and
then MVC, which, which comprises
of both MVC. What we
know of historically is MPC
and the web API, they've
now converged, but what have
we done in the last
year around web forums? So
yeah, so web forms is,
is, is in an interesting
place in that it's in
the analogy you draw the
WinForms is, is kind of
similar, but I wouldn't even
go as far as that
in the case of web
forms. So web forms, we,
we did a blog post
recently about all the stuff
that we've done in web
forms. And I made some
announcements during the week of
build at the same time
that we talked about ASP
net v-necks to do with
web forms. And some of
them may have been a
little confusing cause we use
some of the same terms.
And so for instance, we
just shipped a preview of
a Roslyn based code Dom
provider, which typically you would
use in a web forms
application or an MVC application
that used the web forms,
who engine or the razor
view engine. So co Dom
is the mechanism in.net that
existed before Roslyn that allowed
you to write code from
code. It is a Dom
like API. You have a
tree with nodes and you
add expressions and this and
that. And then once you
have that tree, you can
say, turn this into a
C sharp string. And then
once you have that string,
you can compile it using
whatever Kampala Kampala you have
now in, I guess, put
on that today, that all
happens by calling out to
the C sharp compiler, literally
C S C dot ECC
gets cold when we compile
your dot SPX page on
the web server. And then
that result in assembly goes
into the temporary ASP net
files folder that everyone knows.
And so the new thing
that we released was a
reimplementation of that based on
top of Roslyn. And there
were two main benefits that
you'll get out of using
this one is that obviously
you get to use new
language features that exist that
or that are coming, that
are based on Russell, because
all new language features from
here on for C sharp
and VB will be implemented
in the Roslyn based compilers,
not the old compilers. So
we needed to do that
work to support new languages
and to is a performance
improvement. So as your AC
unit site gets more complicated
and as you have more
folders and more assemblies in
bin, the cost of spinning
up that executable, CSE dot
ECC at the command line,
dozens and dozens, or even
hundreds of times when your
application starts up to compile
all the pages in your
application can get very high,
can actually be exponential depending
on the structure of your
application. And so the new
compiles that are based on
Rosslyn have a lot of
clever tricks around caching so
that when we call the
compiler over and over again,
you don't pay that cost
again. And so we have
some example data where a
fairly complicated application with their
hundreds of assemblies in bean
and hundreds of views in
the application can take 40
minutes to compile using the
old compiler and can take
a minute or two to
compile with the Roslyn based
compiler. Oh, that's really interesting.
So this is potentially, you
know, older web forms, apps,
you know, kind of venerable
web forms app that the
kinds of you see in
large enterprises, large line of
businesses, hundreds and hundreds of
pages. I know we've all
been there with multi minute
long builds and multi minute
long warmup times. Yes. So
the arguably the kind of
the oldest most reliable thing
we have is now being
given support for the newest,
most amazing thing we have.
It's funny because the actual
catalyst for doing this like
right now is that we
had a customer contact us
through customer support saying that
we're seeing that we're having
trouble with a very large
application, taking a very long
time to compile, which was
affecting their ability to sort
of react as a development
team because they would make
a change. It would take
40 minutes to see that
change result in the application.
Now it turns out we
were able to help them
with, with some of their
architecture stuff so that they
could get that time down.
But we took that opportunity
to say, you know, now
might be the right time
to go and look at
building this new code on,
provide a replacement based on
Roslyn and see if we
get a benefit and it
turned out we did. And
so we've released that as
a preview. And the plan
is that as Roslyn continues
to release previews and torts
and RTM, we will keep
in step until they hit
RTM. And then we'll hit
RTM. And it's just a
new game package to be
clear, you can just new
get this into your existing
MVC or web forms application.
And just to reiterate, the
point is not just about
web forms. It also works
in razor pages and in
MPC as well. Then once
you knew get it in,
you'll get the benefit immediately.
And if you do pre
compile using the ASP net
Kampala dot ECC, it also
gets used for that as
well. So then arguably, it's
almost like this new thing,
this new, this new pipeline,
the new cypress@asp.net v-necks is
like a new kind of
vehicle that's been created. And
that doesn't mean existing vehicles
are going to change your
stop. And since you can,
not only new get in
Roslyn support, which is going
to give you basically C-sharp
six support before she starts,
six is available. You can
nuke it in web forms,
friendly URLs, the new identity
subsystem, all the new
support. These are now parallel.
Like th there's a, there's
almost like there's a, there's
a high occupancy vehicle lane
and there's a regular lane,
but we're on the same
freeway we're going forward. You
can still, we, we, I
guess I'm funny when I'm
in podcast mode, I don't
usually say we, but you
know, Microsoft can continue to
put stuff into web forms
with new, get packages and
add onto it and et
cetera. So people who are
already invested in web forms
don't necessarily need to care
about the new aspect of
net v-necks pipeline. It's just
a different lane that they
could move to and from.
And that's going to be
a decision that any application
team will make as they
make any sort of decisions.
And, you know, to be
clear, all those new things
that you just sort of
listed off the web forms,
that that is work that
we did. It's not like
that those things just, no,
It's not old stuff you
release that we released that
like a couple months ago
And, and it's not like
they, those things, you know,
we did the identity version
to work and then that
just magically works. Now we
did the identity to work,
and then we consciously did
work to make it work
in web forms. Right. Right.
And we'll, we'll continue to
do things like that as
appropriate, you know, for web
forms where it makes sense
to that new subsystems that
we deliver would have immediate
benefit in web forms and
the cost involved in doing
so sort of the trade
off is worth it. Then
we will, then we will
continue to do that. And
arguably, as reality is typically
a hybrid application, like you'll
see a web forums app
in a large enterprise with
a Reddis cash, you know,
with Mongo DB, they might
have asp.net. V-necks using web
API in a segment of
their app. They may have
the web forms aspect of
their application and the red
is cash. They're gonna use
all these things together. So
is it really, like we
talked about years ago, one
asp.net and correctly sized Lego
pieces all working together. Is
that actually happening? Yeah, I
think so. The only distinction
really would be with the
big one asp.net effort, a
large part of that message
was sort of saying, look,
you can use these things
within the same application from
an, from sort of a
point of view. Right.
Cause if I think about
an ASP on an application,
I don't really think about
it being bound to one
process and like more people
should Think about that. I
just put out my little
startup and it actually has
three asp.net applications, but I
think Exactly. Yeah. And so,
you know, that will continue
to work even with the
new v-neck stuff we're talking
about. Like in IAS, you'll
still be able to have
a root application, which may
be the full, you know,
full desktop and running a
web forms or a previous
version of NBC. And then
you can have a sub
application of that or a
sibling application that you make
look like a sub using
something like URL rewrite, have
them run in different apples,
but you can still share,
you know, authentication tokens between
the two and you can
still share code the business
logic code and whatnot by
way of, you know, either
cost compiling or using portable
class libraries, which are they,
you know, the.net way of
sharing, compile.net code between different
platforms, all those mechanisms still
exist. And I think anyone
who has worked with asp.net
for a while and has
built anything sizeable will know
that you get to a
point where it makes good
sense to split out the
application into multiple physical iOS
applications, I guess, and even
perhaps distribute them onto different
machines, but you generally consider
them still as part of
the same overall system. And
this isn't any different. That's
cool. That's cool. I think
that we are heading in
the right direction. Aren't we?
I hope so. I certainly
hope so, but the thing
is now that we've, we're
out in the open and
people are giving us their
feedback. And so if we
listen, which I like to
think that we do, then
we're going to end up
in a good place. And
so far people seem to
like the core principles that
we're kind of basing this
new system on so uncomfortable
and heading in the right.
Cool. And people can of
course check all this out
at asp.net/v next. They can
check it out on, on
my blog and also get
hub. If they really want
to see what's going on,
get hub.com/asp net, and they
can see the commits and
you guys are committing directly
to that. Right. That's yeah.
And I will say again,
this is really early days.
So now is the time
to get in and have
a look under the covers.
If you want to influence
some of the big pieces
of this v-neck system, because
we are still, we are
working daily on this thing,
and then you can see
the commits as we make
them, including the feature branches
where we're doing work, that
isn't in the main trunk
yet. Okay. Well, thanks for
talking to me. I really
appreciate you setting us straight.
No glad, glad to be
here again. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.